History of the ADA 

1988, September 27 - the first version of the Americans with Disabilities Act was introduced by Senator Weicker, and Representative Coelho in the 100th Congress. This marks a pivotal point for Civil Rights in America - as it began the process of expanding Civil Liberties to each and every American who lives, breathes, eats, and sleeps in this country. It began the process of protecting those in our country to be deemed less fortunate. The process which reinforced the notion that Americans are ensured that they have equal opportunity to Life, Liberty, and the Pursuit of Happiness. This Law, set forth by our representatives - is the byproduct of American Democracy. This Law, was a co-operative effort to bolster the rights of the American population per their elected representatives’ decisions. In 1989, the representatives of the American people - Senate and Congress combined agreed on a revised form of the ADA. In 1989, this revised form passed in the Senate. In 1990, it Passed the house. July 26th, 1990, George H. Bush signs the Americans with Disabilities Act - codifying it into law. In short, this bill was the will of the people - it was made for the people, by the people. This, unfortunately, has to be repeated for the staff at George Mason University - as at this moment, it appears that they themselves have forgotten such.

My name is James Everett Tourtellotte IV. I am a student here at George Mason University, I am a Penetration Tester at Synack, and I have Attention Deficit Disorder. In my life, I have struggled at the hands of numerous academic institutions per their inability to prepare or remediate inefficiencies regarding disability accommodations. My life has been plagued by the curse of the aptitude test. In my history of attending Public High School in America, Virginia Commonwealth University, and George Mason University - only a single one of these has gone above and beyond in failing to provide reasonable accommodation. The failing institution at hand is George Mason University. Prior, when being accommodated at other Universities - the decisions on accommodations to be made were derived per advice from the individual requesting them. Not by the institution, who is required by law to accommodate, but by the disabled individual. It would be then verified, by a third party professional - in my case a Psychologist. It would not be up to the Dean of the school, it would not be up to the Disability Service office, it would be up to me and what my medical professional deems as reasonable. This would be in tandem with the rights outlined in the 1990 Americans with Disabilities Act, its 2008 revisions, and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation act of 1973. I myself, am aware of the concepts within those bills and my rights thereof. Unfortunately it appears that George Mason University is not. George Mason University, has unfortunately engaged in gross negligence and intimidation given the process of Disability Accommodation.






Per George Mason Universities’ Student Rights and Responsibilities handout, Disability Services, it outlines the following:



For Rights - 

As a student with a disability at George Mason University, you have the right to: 

• Reasonable and effective accommodations determined through an interactive process. 
• Equitable access to educational and co-curricular programs, services, jobs, activities, and facilities available through the university. 
• Be treated with respect and dignity, and receive equitable and fair treatment. 
• Confidentiality in all matters of your documentation and educational record. • Information reasonably available in accessible formats. 
• A grievance process either through an informal or formal process. 

Please visit ds.gmu.edu/grievances for more information.

For Responsibilities - 

As a student with a disability at George Mason University: 

• I understand that it is my responsibility to initiate services with DS. 
• I will provide appropriate documentation of my disability to DS, if needed. 
• I understand that I can request accommodations at any point during my time as a student at George Mason University. 
• I am responsible for working in collaboration with DS to determine reasonable accommodations. 
• I am responsible for advocating for myself and monitoring my own progress. 
• I will alert DS if I need help with accommodation-related concerns as soon as possible. 
• I understand that it is solely my responsibility to request my Academic Accommodation Letters (AAL) each semester in a timely manner to ensure that they are in place as soon as possible. I will contact DS by email, in person, or by phone to request my AAL’s. I understand that it may take 3-5 business days to receive my AAL’s. If you have questions regarding this form or the Disability Services process, please call our office at 703.993.2474 or email ods@gmu.edu. Thank you for your assistance. Page 1 of 2 Revised August
• I acknowledge that it is my responsibility to give my Academic Accommodation Letters to my instructors each semester. I understand that giving my Academic Accommodation Letters to my instructors activates my accommodations each semester. 
• I understand accommodations are not retroactive (i.e., do not apply to past assignments/ tests/courses). 
• I understand that some accommodations (e.g., extended time on tests) may require additional time for my instructors to plan for and implement. 
• I will keep my documentation, contact, and disclosure information up to date with DS, as necessary. 
• I acknowledge that in order to use Disability Services Testing Center, I must follow all testing policies and procedures. Please visit Disability Services Testing Center https://ds.gmu.edu/testing-center/ for additional information. 
• I acknowledge that DS staff members can provide me with information regarding additional academic support resources available on campus. 
• I agree to let DS know if I need textbooks or other printed material enlarged or otherwise formatted. I understand DS recommends this take place at least four weeks prior to the first day of classes of each semester. I agree to provide copies of my syllabi to the Assistive Technology Initiative, if needed, to assist in this process.


This student rights and responsibilities form, also outlines how the Disability Services is “committed to upholding the legal, ethical, and philosophical principles outlined in the 1990 Americans with Disabilities Act, its 2008 revisions, and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation act of 1973”. The form above was presented to me on Wednesday 1/22/2025 for an appointment with Jakeh Lastname-Redacted who was the current representative of the Disability services office at that time. In our meeting, I was told that to have any accommodations whatsoever that I would likely need to sign that form. A quid pro quo, on my Civil Rights as an American already raised a Red Flag. When I declined the form, it was outlined that to get my accommodations - contact with a Supervisor would need to occur. This was also a red flag. As I believed that the opinion of a  Bureaucratic Middleman was not to supersede the rule of law set forth by our Congress and Senate, founded on the principles of democracy. To me this form appeared to be a means of George Mason University skirting accountability in granting rights to their students - which upon further investigation this is arguably the case. 

When reading through Title 45, Subtitle A, Subchapter A, Part 84 you find the regulations set forth by the Department of Health and Human Services implementing Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. This is the subset of principles to which George Mason University states they lawfully uphold. More importantly, Part 84 outlines how they are legally obligated to uphold these principles given that they are a Program Receiving Federal Financial Assistance. The Rights and Responsibilities set forth in the form presented to me outline “Rights and Responsibilities” that are not in consideration of multiple parts of Title 45, Subtitle A, Subchapter A, Part 84, Subpart E. Specifically parts 84.42, 84.43, and 84.44. To better understand their violations, the context of my requested accommodations needs to be highlighted.

In Spring of 2023, I made a decision to choose between George Washington University and George Mason University. After lengthy research, and time consuming efforts I made my choice. Obviously, I chose George Mason University - unfortunately it appears that I am the only Patriot this school has, given their Civil Rights infringements. I applied to the University with intent to study Information Technology, with a concentration in Cybersecurity. They granted me admission, under their “Undeclared CEC Major” program. To me, at the time, this was delightful. I went through my first semester, and decided to declare my second semester - which is when the first issues began. I was informed that they allowed transfer students to declare their IT degree the first semester they were there. This notice was not sent to me, it was merely placed as a thought bubble deep in the corner of their own website. I did not pay attention to this. So, I asked an advisor if there was an opportunity for retroactive judgement - given my disability robs me of my attention to detail. I assumed it would be easy to process this, however not only was an accommodation incomprehensible to any general individual working there - it was also incomprehensible to the Disability Services. 

I wanted the accommodation of someone in the Information Technology Department to review my grades from transfer, and determine if I am eligible for said opportunity. That 15 minute accommodation is deemed unreasonable to everyone. Disability Service, or Administrative services. With this being said, I was then at the whim of the other access barrier to the GMU BSIT course - the GPA Requirement. To declare said degree, you need to have a GPA of 3.00. Initially, I asked that if I cannot be retroactively judged - can the GPA requirement be waived due to my learning disability. Can the standard be adjusted, marginally, in this one particular instance, because I have a learning disability. Can the aptitude metric, that is preventing me access to said opportunity - be waived, as my GPA is 2.97. That is a 1% change in policy, for 1/30000 students. That was deemed unreasonable - by the disability services office. 

I wanted another seemingly harmless accommodation involving an audit. I asked to give an ordered list of Professors, and assignments that were improperly graded. This is because there was a theme of unlimited power, and unchecked authority, in my short time at GMU. To me, as a disabled individual - it is not enough to provide extra services when there are institutional actors’ existing which supercede effect of accommodations. For example, my IT 216 professor stated that Attendance did not matter - this led me to skipping two classes, which was the difference between an A- and a B+ (or me being able to declare my degree). I believed that a retroactive audit of unchecked actors, with me giving an ordered list of such would be easy and reasonable of an accommodation. As for each professor that has to retroactively review a grade, only 15 minutes would be spent doing so. This, for some reason, was deemed unreasonable.

I asked for extra days to study for a test. I asked on the basis that I have a learning disability, and that I need extra time to learn. This was also deemed unreasonable. When I asked why, they informed me they could only give me extra time to perform. This was the most insane and egregious denial in my own opinion. As it is not only so carelessly ignorant to the laws they intend to uphold, but even in their application thereof - it speaks volume to their ignorance. The process of learning is impacted by a learning disability, and so the process of learning might be lengthened - due to a learning disability. This should be an easy accommodation - however it appears that George Mason University is bending the definition of a disability to their own preference. 

As a disabled individual - their current denial of my accommodations implies that I am to be judged as an able bodied individual while existing as someone who is at a disadvantage. This in it of itself, is not upholding the values outlined in the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. A further dive into the actual rules set forth by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 highlight exactly the means in which the institution misinterprets the ruling. 


Section E

84.44 Academic Adjustments

Subpart E, Part 84.41 establishes that the following thereafter applies to Postsecondary Education which receive Federal Financial Assistance. Part 84.44 outlines the responsibilities of the institutional party, referred to as the recipient, and how they are to provide accommodations for their students. Previously mentioned, I requested academic accommodations where one was retroactive in nature and one was proactive in nature. I requested an audit of my past interactions with the registration office, and professors. I requested a waiver on the academic requirements to the George Mason University BSIT Program and Courses at Hand. 

I was not only told that these were not possible, but I was informed that it was the will of George Mason University delineating this. It was George Mason University delineating if I am to be granted the accommodations to which I am entitled to under the principles outlined in Section 504 of the 1973 Prohibitions act. Their mistake is not realizing that they are not allowed to delineate out of tandem with this act.

Section 84.44 outlines Academic Adjustments to be made when accommodating qualified individuals with disabilities. In regards to my request to retroactively audit my professors, their denial is in breach of 84.44(c) which states the following:

(c) Course examinations. In its course examinations or other procedures for evaluating students' academic achievement, a recipient to which this subpart applies shall provide such methods for evaluating the achievement of students who have a disability that impairs sensory, manual, or speaking skills as will best ensure that the results of the evaluation represents the student's achievement in the course, rather than reflecting the student's impaired sensory, manual, or speaking skills (except where such skills are the factors that the test purports to measure).

As stated, this subsection requires qualifying institutions to provide methods for evaluating the achievement of students who have a disability. Given that my disability is sensory, and I have not been accommodated prior - a denial of such outline would be a denial of a corrective measure to further remove undue burden set forth by George Mason University. Undue Burden done unto a Disabled Individual, by the will of George Mason University. This would be a breach of 84.44, and per 84.6 (Guidelines on Remedial Action) it would stand to be corrected by the University if not the relevant Civil Rights Director outlined in 84.6 section (1),(2), and (3). The institution is responsible for providing such methods to audit themselves. 


The course examinations being audited is a procedural accommodation. Given that 84.44(c) outlines that institutions will provide methods to ensure the evaluation represents the student’s achievement rather than their aptitude from impairment - it stands to reason that a retroactive accommodation is fair and reasonable. I am arguing that professors with unchecked power created a situation to which my GPA does not adequately reflect my academic ability. Therefore, as a disabled person, it is subject to audit - within reason. 

In this case reasonable is defined, on my end, as an ordered list - where I tell the disability services to call N-number of professors to audit N-number of assignments. Where N-Number of professors does not exceed 14, and the number of assignments per professor does not exceed 3. This to me, even when presenting its range in entirety - is very reasonable. A realistic estimation would be asking for 4 professors to audit 2 assignments each. That is my guess. 

Currently, I am retaking my third class to make the GPA mark as an unaccommodated individual with a disability. The impact that denial, and delaying, has had - places me in a counterintuitive situation for my academic state at hand. The current accommodation would remove my need to retake classes, and allow me to continue my pursuit of life, liberty, and pursuit of happiness. GMU and their inability to accommodate my struggle is not upholding the ethics outlined in section 504 of the 1973 Rehabilitation act. It is not only concerning that George Mason University would present this rejection, but they would do it multiple times.

Section 84.44 also outlines the responsibilities that the institution has to its individuals with qualified disabilities in regards to accommodations for Academic Requirements. This is highlighted in Section 84.44 (a):

(a) Academic requirements. A recipient to which this subpart applies shall make such modifications to its academic requirements as are necessary to ensure that such requirements do not discriminate or have the effect of discriminating, on the basis of disability, against a qualified applicant or student with a disability. Academic requirements that the recipient can demonstrate are essential to the instruction being pursued by such student or to any directly related licensing requirement will not be regarded as discriminatory within the meaning of this section. Modifications may include changes in the length of time permitted for the completion of degree requirements, substitution of specific courses required for the completion of degree requirements, and adaptation of the manner in which specific courses are conducted.

Along with outlining a retroactive audit of my professors’ aptitude exams, I asked if there would be the ability to waive the GPA requirement for the degree I intend to pursue. I asked if there was a way to waive the academic requirement that is set forth for the able bodied population with intent and pursuit similar to mine. I was informed that this was not possible, by the same institution that is legally required to uphold these responsibilities. Given that the GPA Requirement is unable to be altered, while simultaneously being an Academic Requirement, it appears that George Mason would be in violation of this responsibility upon denying this accommodation. 

84.44 (a) outlines that the institution has the burden of proof to demonstrate that the Academic Requirements are essential to the instruction being pursued by such students. They have refused to do this, and have yet to do so. However, I question the definition of essential - as I myself already have an IT job of great stature as a Penetration Tester (or Hacker). This is a job in it of itself, which requires a great deal of intelligence and prowess with Information Technology Systems. This concept that the degree and its aptitude requirements are essential is probably not true in nature. This is even outlined by my Psychiatrist in my intake forms on testing. The GPA requirement is not a reflection of my intelligence whatsoever, however, I have chosen to go to college to get a degree to make applying and achieving jobs easier than it is right now. Which, with no degree, it was very difficult. Right now, it not only appears that George Mason is placing themselves between my future life, my future liberties, my future happiness - they are also doing so in a manner that is illegal and disrespectful to the laws that we the American people have set forth many decades prior. 

It is painfully obvious that the philosophical principles upheld in the 1973 rehabilitation act section 504 are not the same principles that George Mason University maintains. They themselves, upon intake of a disabled person, denied them of reasonable accommodation that are clearly outlined within the law they are supposed to follow. This misinterpretation is an infringement on my rights as a Disabled person, and as an American. I advise that the parties of George Mason University remediate the issues at hand. However, there is more to outline.


84.43 Treatment of Students; General

George Mason University states that we as students have rights to ethical and equitable treatment, per the 1973 rehabilitation act section 504, the 1990 ADA, and the 2008 ADAA revisions. The above violation yields probable cause to accuse George Mason University of violating 84.43 sections (a), (b), and (c). These are seen below:

(a) No qualified student with a disability shall, on the basis of disability, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any academic, research, occupational training, housing, health insurance, counseling, financial aid, physical education, athletics, recreation, transportation, other extracurricular, or other postsecondary education aids, benefits, or services to which this subpart applies.
(b) A recipient to which this subpart applies that considers participation by students in education programs or activities not operated wholly by the recipient as part of, or equivalent to, and education program or activity operated by the recipient shall assure itself that the other education program or activity, as a whole, provides an equal opportunity for the participation of qualified persons with disabilities.
(c) A recipient to which this subpart applies may not, on the basis of disability, exclude any qualified student with a disability from any course, course of study, or other part of its education program or activity.

Per the rules outlined in 84.44 (a), the lack of evidence acknowledging my “unreasonable accommodation” and why it is deemed as such - obviously yields no answer as to why I am not accommodated. If I am unable to be accommodated in an effective manner, and the reason to why is not explained nor outlined then it leads me to believe I am being excluded from participation in academic curricular at George Mason University based on my disability alone. Which, would be a direct violation to 84.43 (a). 

Furthermore, the ignorance and inability to rectify past issues related to the condition is in violation of 84.43 (b) - due to its construction which limits equal opportunity for those with qualified disabilities. Note here, how my grievances outline that I am asking for an accommodation of opportunity. Note here how the law outlines that the courses and educational program, in any to some relation to the recipient, will provide equal opportunity. This is crucial to understand, as I have defined my learning disability related accommodations as reasonable. My accommodations are requisition opportunities. I do not want to be given all A’s and my IT degree, I just want the opportunity to engage in the educational program with my peers. Currently, the two things limiting me are George Mason’s Disability Services’ inefficiencies and their GPA Requirements (GPA Requirements by 1%, mind you, 3.00 GPA requirement, I have a 2.97).

Finally, section 84.44 (c) is in violation due to George Mason Universities’ belief that their own employees and administration are above the law. The inability to make the accommodations to which I have set forth are evidence of this as it outlines “may not, on the basis of disability, exclude any qualified student with a disability from any course, course of study, or other part of its education program or activity.” George Mason University did not outline the reason why they could not make those accommodations, and why they were not able to do so. They just stated that those were the rules. I however was under the assumption that they simply enforced the rules of the law - unto the professors. The opinions of Professors, and administrations alike, are to be disregarded in the nature of upholding the laws which supersede their own beliefs. Unfortunately, it appears that there are individuals who state their rules set forth are the rules of the land - while being on land that states otherwise. If I have no explanation as to why my barriers prevent me from engaging in an equitable manner with my peers, I am to assume that my restricted access is based on the principle of my Learning Disability. This would be discrimination - which wholeheartedly disgusts me to my core. 

George Mason University states that they themselves are “committed to upholding the legal, ethical, and philosophical principles of Section 504 of the Rehabilitation act of 1973, the 1990 Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and the ADA Amendments Acts of 2008 (ADAA).” Given the aforementioned experience, combined with specific outlines of those principles regarding to postsecondary institutions - George Mason University is in violation not only of said subset of laws and principles, but also of the more general responsibilities set forth in Subpart G, 84.68 and onward. This is imperative to highlight as the nature of the system, as previously mentioned, was protective to their own beliefs which are not in line with the systems placed forth through rule of law. 

The form that I was given by the Disabilities Services office is in direct violation of a platitude of responsibilities set forth in Subpart G, 84.68, and in 84.71 section a and b. 

84.68 - General Prohibitions against Discrimination.

We have established numerous times that it is in my belief that the lack of evidence to “why” their policies are the way they are lead me to believe I am being discriminated against because of my disability. This is a violation of my rights per 84.68 (a):

(a) No qualified individual with a disability shall, solely on the basis of disability, be excluded from participation in or be denied the benefits of the programs or activities of a recipient, or be subjected to discrimination by any recipient.

However, the form provided by the disabilities services office appears to also be in violation of 84.68 (b) Section 1, subsection (i), (ii), and (iii). Below are the excerpts themselves that outline what an institution is not permitted to do when accommodating disabled individuals:

84.68
(b)
(1) A recipient, in providing any aid, benefit, or service, may not, directly or through contractual, licensing, or other arrangements, on the basis of disability—
(i) Deny a qualified individual with a disability the opportunity to participate in or benefit from the aid, benefit, or service.
(ii) Afford a qualified individual with a disability an opportunity to participate in or benefit from the aid, benefit, or service that is not equal to that afforded others.
(iii) Provide a qualified individual with a disability an aid, benefit, or service that is not as effective in affording equal opportunity to obtain the same result, to gain the benefit or to reach the same level of achievement as that provided to others.
(iv) Provide different or separate aids, benefits, or services to individuals with disabilities or to any class of individuals with disabilities than is provided to others unless such action is necessary to provide qualified individuals with disabilities with aids, benefits, or services that are as effective as those provided to others.

84.68 (b) Section 1, subsection (i) outlines that through contractual agreements ANY institution receiving federal funding is NOT PERMITTED to do the following: Deny a qualified individual the opportunity to participate in or benefit from the aid, benefit, or service. The aid, benefit, or service in this case would be the reasonable accommodations that are to be made per the instruction of the law for the disabled party at hand. This will be highlighted again when addressing subsection (iii).

84.68 (b) Section 1, subsection (ii) outlines that they will not, through contractual agreements, prohibit benefits that are equal and afforded to others. Given that this is a national law pertaining to ALL qualifying universities - it stands to reason that this subsection is interpreted as “you will not through contract, define your own rules in regards to your accommodations”. Others are not defined. If I am being denied these accommodations, with the combination of a quid pro quo form that outlines what rights I have and do not have (defined by George Mason and not the Law) it follows that this is in violation of said subsection as their principles are categorically not in line with federal guidelines and laws.

84.68 (b) Section 1, subsection (iii) outlines that it is against the law to refuse to provide a qualified disabled person with an accommodation that is insufficient. It states that even through a contractual agreement George Mason is not allowed to define their own rules for accommodations. George Mason University is not allowed to define which accommodations they are allowed to grant to a disabled person. They are not allowed to bypass responsibility for any reason whatsoever, even if a disabled person does sign a form. Their contractual agreement outlines that they are not allowed to make retroactive accommodations, this is clearly in violation of this subsection - which is in the category of “General Prohibitions against discrimination”. The nature of distributing this form, in a quid pro quo manner not only violates principles outlined in 84.68, but it also does so for 84.71

84.71 Retaliation or Coercion.

84.71 Retaliation or Coercion, section (a) and (b) outline the responsibilities to which the recipient has in regards to dealing with an individual who has a qualified disability. Section (a) and (b) are seen below:

(a) A recipient shall not discriminate against any individual because that individual has opposed any act or practice made unlawful by this part, or because that individual made a charge, testified, assisted, or participated in any manner in an investigation, proceeding, or hearing under section 504 or this part.
(b) A recipient shall not coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any individual in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of their having exercised or enjoyed, or on account of their having aided or encouraged any other individual in the exercise or enjoyment of any right granted or protected by section 504 or this part.
In the meeting that I had for my Disability Accomodations with the Office of Disability Services ended with me having to sign a form. This was a great concern to me, as my rights through my own eyes are unalienable and cannot be superseded by a form devised and created by man himself. It turns out that the laws set forth by our representatives believe so too. The representative Jakeh informed me that he was not sure what would occur if I did not sign the form. The representative implied that either a meeting with his supervisor, me included, would need to occur at minimum. If not that, then he would ask his supervisor what accommodations can occur if one does not sign the form. This appears to be a systemic access barrier, and a violation of 84.71 section (a). It is the recipient’s responsibility to provide reasonable accommodations to qualifying parties, however they require qualifying parties to sign their rights away. A specific right that stuck out was retroactive accommodations, so specific in nature it appeared to be man made and man defined. This would imply likely corruption, as it is not in line with the rules set forth by superseding institutions. 

I am under the assumption that without signing the form, I have no ability for recourse to be granted my civil rights as an american. This is because George Mason University believes that their bureaucratic procedures are a valid enough excuse to supersede the rules set forth by our laws in place today. This is one of many violations that the institution itself is upholding. I again, request to be seen in this state and that my accommodations be met to the standard to which is defined and set forth. The current procedural, and systematic means of accommodating my disability is counterintuitive to the intent of the ADA, and ADAA. Along with being likely illegal. 

The Americans with Disabilities Act is not to be interpreted in the favor of the institution required to abide by it. The Americans with Disabilities Act does not allow any institution to discriminate in the manner that George Mason University itself appears to be doing so. The situation at hand, with my disability and denial of requested accommodations outline a saddening and concerning amount of incompetency from an institution that is supposed to be centered around education. I again, request that the principles themselves be upheld accordingly and that I am granted the accommodations to which I have previously discussed in the document at hand. The decisions to not do so, are in violation of the principles and ethics that George Mason University is legally required to uphold.
